feat(gatsby-source-contentful): provide gql type definitions using content model introspection and schema-customization (#12816)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: packages/gatsby-source-contentful/README.md

When querying images you can use the `fixed`, `fluid` or `resize` nodes to get different sizes for the image (for example for using [gatsby-image](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-image/)). Their usage is documented at the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) package. The only difference is that gatsby-source-contentful also allows setting only the `width` parameter for these node types, the height will then automatically be calculated according to the aspect ratio.

## Notes on Contentful Content Models

### References

> Contentful reference fields will create [Union type](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#union-types) fields. To access data [Inline fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#inline-fragments) need to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contentful reference fields will create [Union type](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#union-types) fields. [Inline fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#inline-fragments) should be used to access the data on these fields.
```

> For example, if you have `Product` and `Category` Content Models in Contentful space and `Product` has `categories` field that reference `Category` entries, you can get list of categories for product by querying:

Reviewer: I think showing the demo query and then explaining the requirements makes it easier to understand this?

```suggestion
See below for a references example where you query for categories on a product:
```

```graphql
{
  contentfulProduct {
    name
    price
    categories {
      # We are using inline fragment on Category type
      # to access category fields
      ... on ContentfulCategory {
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example assumes that you have `Product` and `Category` Content Models in your Contentful space,  and that `Product` has a `categories` field that references `Category` entries.

```

### Reverse references

> When using reference fields, be aware that this source plugin will automatically create the reverse reference. You do not need to create references on both content types. Name of reverse reference will contain field and type names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using reference fields, be aware that this source plugin will automatically create the reverse reference. You do not need to create references on both content types. The name of the reverse reference will contain field and type names.
```

> For example, if you have `Product` and `Category` Content Models in Contentful space and `Product` has `categories` field that reference `Category` entries, you can get list of all products in given category by quering:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See below for a reverse references example where you query for all products in a given category:
```

```graphql
{
  contentfulCategory {
    title
    categoriesProduct {
      name
      price
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example assumes that you have `Product` and `Category` Content Models in your Contentful space, and `Product` has a `categories` field that references `Category` entries.

```

For simplicity, it is easier to put the reference field on the child in child/parent relationships.

### Markdown transformers on Long Text fields

> Version 3 of `gatsby-source-contentful` creates GraphQL schema directly from Contentful Content Model and is not inferring fields from data anymore. This means that queries won't break if you don't have any fields in Your contentful space. There is however edge case for transformed data - particularly for Long Text fields that can be transformed with `gatsby-transformer-remark` or `gatsby-mdx`. Contentful plugin is not aware of transformers so you might need to provide hints for gatsby to create `childMarkdownRemark`/`childMdx` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 3 of `gatsby-source-contentful` creates GraphQL schema directly from the Contentful Content Model and no longer infers fields from data. 

This means that queries will keep working even if your Contentful space doesn't have any fields in it. 

There is however, an edge case for transformed data - particularly for Long Text fields that can be transformed with `gatsby-transformer-remark` or `gatsby-mdx`. The Contentful plugin is not aware of transformers so you might need to provide hints for Gatsby to create `childMarkdownRemark`/`childMdx` fields.
```

> Here's example of attaching `childMarkdownRemark`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of attaching `childMarkdownRemark`:
```

Check out the examples at [@contentful/rich-text-react-renderer](https://github.com/contentful/rich-text/tree/master/packages/rich-text-react-renderer).

## Migration to `gatsby-source-contentful` version 3:

- Reference fields are always unions:
  ```diff
  {
    contentfulProduct {
      name
      price
      categories {
  -     title
  +     # We are using inline fragment on Category type
  +     # to access category fields
  +     ... on ContentfulCategory {
  +       title
  +     }
      }
    }
  }
  ```
- Reverse reference fields now include referencing field name:
  ```diff
  {
    contentfulCategory {
      title
  -   product {
  +   categoriesProduct {
        name
        price
      }
    }
  }
  ```

> - Rich text fields now don't infer fields. Only available field is `json`. See [Contentful Rich Text](#contentful-rich-text) section how to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rich text fields now don't infer fields. Only available field is `json`. See [Contentful Rich Text](#contentful-rich-text) section on how to use it.
```
